Dengler project comes with tests set up.
In Pic Jason we will see two dependencies for testing jasmine and karma.
We are using Jasmine functionalities when writing our tests.
Karma is automating the running part of these tests and it runs them on browser.
In the project.
We already have a sample of test for the app component.
Now we can run the tests.
Let's open a new terminal.
And all we need to do is just run in BPM test.
So this is starting a browser and it runs the tests on that one.
And if we focus to that one here, we see there are three tests from app component and all of them are
passing.
And here in the app component, we have those tests.
It should create the app, it should have a title source, it should render title and here we see all
of them are passing.
We will apply test driven development by using these tools.
But in JavaScript community there are popular alternatives.
So according to the state of Jazz for the survey of 2021, the most satisfied libraries are like the
testing library.
And just testing library is a utility library for testing front end applications.
It has variations for popular frameworks like React, Vue, Angular and svelte.
The idea of this library is to write the test just like a real user uses the application.
And the other popular library is just just is a test runner.
It is built on Jasmine.
So compared to Jasmine, it has extra functionalities to make the testing a bit easier.
Since Angular is an opinionated framework and has guidelines about every aspect of the application development,
I will follow the test practices coming with it.
But I believe using jest and testing library for testing driven development is also a valuable experience.
So I will add that alternative test environment too.
In each lecture I will show how the same test would be written with just and testing library.
Now let's set this environment up.
By the way, you don't have to repeat each of these steps with me if you would like.
You can just download the resource file which has the project with this configuration.
Basically you just unzip it and run npm install in it and you will be all set.
Now let's do this step manually here.
Opening a new terminal here and I'm going to install testing library dependencies.
So running npm, install, save dev or we can go shorter by just npm i and dash uppercase rd for development
dependencies.
And the first first one is testing library angular.
And this is the English version for the testing library.
With this library we can render angular components and use DOM queries to get the elements we are looking
for.
And we will have companion libraries for testing library and one of them is testing library user event.
And as it names implies, this is for creating user events like clicking to button typing into input
and so on.
And we have one more library and that is testing library.
Just don't.
And this is for having human readable dome related measure functionalities for just.
At this point, this may not make any sense to you, but it will when we use it.
By the way, we can use the testing library with the existing angular test setup.
But the ecosystem library is like the user event or just brings a bit of complexity in terms of creating
the setup of the project.
So I will not be using testing library in default angular tests.
So just hitting enter to install these.
So these are installed.
Now let's install the test runner just again in PM.
I de just this is the test runner and we will have types just this is for the type definitions and the
last one is just preset.
Angular, and this is the preset configuration of just four Angular projects.
So I think enter.
So these packages are installed.
We are going to configure just.
But before jumping to the configuration part, let's install final dependencies.
And we are going to install again, this is a development dependency MSW.
This is more service worker.
Service worker is a library for mocking the HTTP request.
As we progress, we will see the use case of it and also we will need another package.
And that is what wg fetch.
In our application, we will use fetch for fetching data from back end, but that will be temporary.
We will replace it with the the angler solution of that.
But while using that one, we will need fetch to be available in the node environment as well because
just tests are running in Node and in node we don't have fetch.
So that's why we are installing this library to make the fetch available in it.
So hitting enter.
So we are all.
So the installation part is completed.
Now let's set the second test environment up.
So in the project.
In the root folder.
Let's create a file.
Let's name it.
Set up dash just to us.
So this file will be used by just before running the tests.
We can use this one to have repeating parts in our test.
So the first thing is we are going to import just preset angular.
And from this one, we will get set up Dash just and then we will import another library.
And this is for the testing library.
And instead of repeating this import in each test module we do right here and we are importing, testing,
library.
Just don't.
So this setup just is okay.
Now we are going to go into the package JSON and we will configure the chest so we can add just configuration
right after the dependencies.
So we have just.
And first thing is we are going to set the preset and that's going to be just preset angular.
And we are going to tell just to use the set up, just file we created and we do that by setting the
set up files after envy.
And this is looking for an error.
And in this area, we are pointing to the file.
It's in the root there.
Set up just.
Yes.
Now we need to transform the files in the project and we will use again just pre-set angular for it.
And we do this configuration by adding this transform.
And this is looking for an object.
And as a key, we will pass a regex.
And in this regex we will pick all the files, all the typescript, JavaScript and HTML files, which
are the base building blocks of the of the components.
So there is something like this.
And then we are looking for it to be ending with tears or jazz or HTML.
So if any files is ending with JS or HTML, then this is going to be transformed by just preset angular.
And since we have to test set up now, let's have separate test modules for each.
By default, karma configuration is looking for test files.
Having this that spec ts extension.
And for just tests.
Let's go with an unconventional naming.
Let's say we will have the gest extension for the GEST test.
Generally, it is either that spec test or that test test.
But for this project, let's make an exception and let's go with that.
Just as for just tests, so we have test match and we are looking for.
And I think.
Ending with.
Just.
Yes.
And finally, we need to tell the test environment.
And the test environment is just dumb.
So the tests are not running in a real browser.
It is running in Jazz Dome.
It is basically a JavaScript dome running in the node environment.
We don't have the actual browser API in it, but it is covering most of the browser functionality we
need.
So the configuration for the just in the package, Jason, is done before finishing this part.
We need to also update the TypeScript configuration for this one.
TLS config spec json.
And here for the compiler options in just test output, we will see warning about s module interoperability
with the type script and to resolve that warning we can set right here is module interop to be true.
Then for the types we will replace Jasmine with just.
And here in this include array, we will also include set up just as file we created.
So it is current directory set up dash just to us.
So this part is done now, just is configured.
All we need is add a script to run the gist and I'm adding something like this test colon just and we
can run the test by just watch.
So just we'll be running in watch mode.
So whenever we do any changes, the test will rerun and just will only be picking the test files ending
with just us.
So it's not going to be running the.
This test file.
This is going to be run only by the default angular test setup.
So saving this one.
And we can go to a terminal.
And I'm going to use this one.
Just clearing the terminal and running empty run test just.
Just watch.
Functionality is working based on the commits and it is checking if there is a change in the files.
If there is a diff between the last comet and the current working directory, then it runs the tests.
We can force it to run all the tests by hitting a and it is just saying this noticed found.
So our second test setup is ready and we are ready to start our project.